Here is a guide to writing TWITTER THREADS:

How To Write a Twitter Thread: Tips for Perfectly Crafting a Viral Writing Thread on Twitter
Ready to learn how to write a Twitter thread? We can sense how eager you are to harness the power of Twitter threads for your own use. And as you'll discover below, writing the perfect Twitter thread isn't as difficult as you may assume.
There are four elements to crafting a Twitter thread. 
Each element is a tweet that stands on its own, but when packaged together they create a pleasurable experience for the reader.  Here they are:
• Lead-In Tweet: This is the first tweet in your post. It is a combination of your headline and your lead in sentence. In this tweet, you are grabbing the reader's attention and telling them what they get by reading the rest of the thread.
• Main Points: Between your lead-in and CTA you have all the main points. This is the bulk of your post. But, if your lead-in doesn't hook the reader, they aren't going to read your main points.‍
• TL;DR Recap: This stands for "too long didn't read" and is a summary of your entire thread. This summary tweet tells the reader here's everything we covered. It comes at the end and reinforces the whole thread.
• ‍CTA: Call your reader to action. You just delivered a tone of value to your readers. Now you want to capture that engagement by taking them off the platform. Direct your readers to more of your content, or send them to a lead capture page to collect an email.  If they want more, give them something to do when they finish reading.  
When you are done, your thread will look like this:
‍
Let's get into the steps of how to write a good Twitter thread - starting with crafting your hook.
Step 1: Write the Lead-In Tweet.
The Lead-In Tweet is like a compressed movie trailer.
You have to get to the point fast and tell the reader everything they are about to get in your thread in 1.5 seconds. 
• Who is it for?
• What is it about?
• Why should they trust you?
• What will the reader "get" in exchange? 
• After they read, how is their life going to be different?
Think of your Lead-In Tweet as a headline and your first sentence combined. And your goal is to get the reader to click, expand your Twitter Thread, and start reading. (If you aren't successful at grabbing the reader's attention in your Lead-In Tweet, then it doesn't matter how "great" the content is—the reader is going to skip right over your Thread and move onto the next piece of content in their feed).
Let's look at Dickie's tweet on David Ogilvy.
‍
￼
• "One of the most legendary" ←- Credibility. This isn't Dickie, it's Ogilvy!
• "In 1982" ← Moment in time.  This is one of the 6 ways we teach writing first sentences.
• "How to write" ← This is about how to write according to David Ogilivy.
• "10 bullets on effective writing" ←  This is what the reader gets if they move forward.
Boom! 
In four sentences the reader knows exactly who this is for, what it's about and what they will get out of it.  If you don't have that, the reader will just think "oh, it's another thread" and move on by.  
Readers don't' read threads. They read to get something in return.  
You will never succeed writing on the internet if you promise that your content gets better three paragraphs later. The whole game happens in the first three sentences. It doesn't happen three paragraphs from now. Either you hook someone's attention or you don't. That's the hard part. 
Once you have the reader's attention, you just have to deliver on the promise. 
• Focus on the idea.  
• Say or read it out aloud.  
• Allow yourself to hear your main point. 
It's not about the writing, it's about the thinking. What is the idea you are communicating to the reader?
Let's look at another example
￼
Most people would say, "Here's how to generate 100 ideas." But this "idea" can become exponentially stronger by explaining: "And here's how to do that in record time." And, even further: " Here's how to do that in record time even if you thought it was never possible."
• How to generate 100 ideas (compelling)
• In 30 minutes (more compelling) 
• Even if you think you have nothing to say (even more compelling)
You are pushing the reader to see why what you have written is so important for them to read.
Here's another one.
￼
There are 4 parts to this tweet:
• Credibility: 1,000 hours.
• Twist the knife: College will fail you.
• Exactly what you get: 11 summary tweets. 
• What's in it for them: They can apply it today. 
If you remove any of these parts, this Lead-In Tweet wouldn't be nearly as effective. 
We have a complete guide on viral hooks for Twitter. Our list of headline templates that create curiosity can also assist you with this. But for now, let's move on to the next step in how to write a thread on Twitter: piecing together your main points.
‍Step 2: Write the Main Points.
Congrats! You caught the reader's attention. 
Now it's time to give them what they came for.
With Atomic Essays, one of the frameworks we teach in Ship 30 for 30 is formatting paragraphs into 1-3-1 formatting. Well, in a thread, you can do the same thing. It's just compressed. 
Instead of three sentences, you use three bullets.
• Avoid long bulky paragraphs.
• Use bullet points and line breaks.
• Every tweet should stand on its own to maximize engagement.
This is what makes Twitter such a different "language" compared to other Digital Writing platforms. Instead of paragraphs, you are optimizing for speed with a thread. You want someone to be able to see your Lead-In, get hooked, click, skim, and be done in ten seconds. That's the whole game. Which is why Twitter threads are hyper compressed. 
The key here is to write single sentences in bulleted lists. 
• Tell the reader what they need to know. 
• Give them three examples to illustrate the point. 
• Then move on to the next tweet in the thread and do it again. 
Anytime you see yourself staring at a big paragraph, get rid of it.
Formatting matters.
￼
If this is difficult for you, there are templates you can use in Typeshare.  
All you have to do is color in the lines. 
For example: this tweet…
￼
…turned into this template.
￼
Typeshare templates will help you practice and get up to speed.  
Alternatively, when you see something grab your attention on Twitter, pause and ask yourself:  "What did they do and how can I create the exact same thing?" When you see something grab your attention, stop, open another window, copy the text, and try to create a template for yourself.
Step 3: End your thread with a TL;DR recap.
Your second to last tweet should be the TL;DR recap.
(TL;DR stands for "Too Long, Didn't Read"—which is Internet-speak for "just tell me what I need to know.")
This recap repeats the "headlines" of your Main Points. And posting the TL;DR at the end of your thread improves the reader's experience. It helps your reader quickly internalize everything they just read, which improves the likelihood that they "act" when they see your call to action.
Pro Tip: Write the TL;DR first. (This becomes the outline for your Twitter Thead.)
When you start the writing process listing out your TL;DR tweet, it's like writing your headline first. If you can't summarize your thread, you don't know what you are saying.  This is also another way for readers to "skim" your thread before they start reading it in detail.
Pro Tip: When you are writing bullet points, make each one longer than the next. It's nice to read.
￼
Step 4: End your Thread with a CTA.
CTA stands for "Call To Action," which means you are going to direct the reader's attention somewhere else.
This should be the last Tweet in your Thread:
• Make it easy for the reader to take the next action. 
• Show them how they can continue reading your best stuff.
• Point them to your newsletter, or a product you have for sale. 
• You can even send people to another thread, or just ask them to follow you.  
Give the reader something to do at the bottom of the thread, so when they get to the bottom they don't just scroll away.  The easiest thing to say is: "If you enjoyed this thread, follow me for more threads like this one."  
If you deliver something valuable to the reader, they will do something in return for you.  
￼

Here are some examples of TWITTER THREADS:

<examples of Twitter threads>

(Note that each Tweet of the thread is numbered, in brackets (not in the text of the tweet itself, but here, for your reference), or otherwise separated by ---.

Keep in mind that the CONTENT/SUBJECT of these examples isn't relevant to you crafting the twitter thread based on the script below - these are just examples about how to pattern the threads in a way that's proven to work.

Pay super close attention to how the opening tweet is worded and why it works the way it does… and the way that the subsequent tweets open and end (to create flow between each and continuous reading). Keep in mind that the length of each varies, based on what's best for a high quality thread. Don't limit yourself - just make the thread as long as it needs to be (though aim for 20 tweets or less, given that you want to increase the consumption rate).

<twitter thread example 0>

Thread by George Mack (@george__mack)

Newton's Flaming Laser Sword:

• If something can be settled by experiment or observation, then it is not worthy of debate.

UFC 1 >>> Decade long debates on the best martial arts

---

Joe Rogan's Razors:

• If unsure what action to take - ask what the hero in the movie would do.

• If you're intensely passionate about something and nobody around you is interested in it - assume the scale of the internet might help you find them.

---

Taleb's Surgeon:

• If presented with two seemingly equal candidates for a role, pick the one with the least amount of charisma.

The uncharismatic one has got there despite their lack of charisma.

The charismatic one has got there with the aid of their charisma.

---

Discomfort Razor:

• The more uncomfortable the activity, the more likely it will lead to growth.

• The more comfortable the activity, the more likely it will lead to stagnation.

1000 uncomfortable hours > 10,000 comfortable hours

---

Checkhov's Gun:

• When telling a story, if it's non-essential - don't include it.

"If you say in the 1st chapter that there is a rifle hanging on the wall, in the 2nd or 3rd chapter it absolutely must go off. If it's not going to be fired, it shouldn't be hanging there."

---

Occam's Razor:

• Simple assumptions are more likely to be correct than complex assumptions.

Avoid Occam's Duct Tape:

• Someone who approaches a problem with a ridiculously large number of assumptions.

---

Walt Disney's Rule:

• If struggling to think clearly about a subject, draw it out.

Here's Walt Disney's drawing he made in 1957 of the Media Empire he wanted to build.

It's iconic.

[Image: Image] (https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Er23Bp-XAAQSLB_?format=jpg&name=medium)
---

Schwarzeneggers' Rule:

• Never need to monetize your artistic pursuits. You won't have to sacrifice your inner joy and vision for a payday.

Arnold made millions from property and D2C bodybuilding guides so he never had to say yes to acting gigs he didn't like.

---

I occasionally send out a newsletter of new ideas I'm exploring.

100% high signal. 0% spam.

Check it out  http://bit.ly/MentalModelsBD

---
</twitter thread example 0>

<twitter thread example 1>

[1]

I ranked 1st in my year at Cambridge University.

Here's a monster thread of 14 study tips to help you smash your exams ￼

[2]

1 - Scope the subject

When we're studying, we don't always appreciate where a certain fact or branch of the subject fits within the wider scope. One of the first things I always did was map out the full subject on paper so I could have some context of what I was studying.

[3]

If you do this at the start of your curriculum, you can easily colour code the areas that you're good at and highlight what you need to study more.

I used a traffic light￼ (green, amber, red) system for this in a system like Notion to keep track of where I should spend my time.

[4]

2 - Focus on your weaknesses

In real life, I'd actually say that this is bad advice, but when you're taking exams you need to get good grades across the board.

[5]

At school, there's no point spending more time focusing on subjects you're already good at. If you suck at maths but are great at English, you probably should be spending the most time on sums instead of Shakespeare.

[6]

3 - Use a retrospective revision timetable

I think the usual revision timetable where you plan in "next Monday I'm going to study Biology and then Music" is just an exercise in procrastination. I think it's better just to write a to-do list on the day that you're studying.

[7]

Make your list based on what needs the most practice.

Once you've studied the subject, put the date down next to it (wherever you keep track of these things) and then colour code how well you did today.

Here's a video explaining the process:

[8]

4 - Notetaking is a waste of time

One of students favourite strategies for studying is to summarise from books or lectures, but there's a lot of research to suggest that this is a really passive way to learn.

[9]

Techniques that feel a bit harder like testing yourself with flashcards will form connections in your brain and help you remember the material better than regurgitating from the book.

[10]

5 - Focus on understanding

Your goal isn't to memorise the material, it's actually to understand it.

You may have heard someone say 'if you can't explain it to a 12 year old, you probably don't understand it'.

[11]

This is famously the Feynman Technique, where you test if you can explain a topic and then easily answer the 'but why' questions that will follow.

After a lecture, see if you can explain a topic to a friend or write a short paper on it. This will benefit you massively.

[12]

6 - Do lots of mock exams

Exams aren't really a test of knowledge, they're a test of exam performance. Unfortunately that's the way the current education system is designed. So to proverbially 'play the game', you need to get good at actively recalling information.

[13]

7 - Use intentional flair

I spent a year supervising medical physiology and read a lot of papers. The best ones usually had great handwriting, added diagrams or started with an engaging introduction. The examiners are reading tons of papers a day, so you want yours to stand out.

[14]

8 - Bank points with coursework

If your subject has a coursework option, put a good chunk of your time into that. If you get a good grade in coursework, that gives you some leverage (20% or so depending on the course) to your final grade.

[15]

9 - Study with friends

Most people don't do this because they're worried about distractions. Yes, you might lose a little bit of productivity but you'll also 1. be more motivated to turn up and 2. enjoy the act of studying more than you would being in a room alone constantly.

[16]

When I was at medical school, I started a pomodoro group with friends.

We were all studying different things, but we sat together and worked on the same pomodoro timer, and when we'd hit a few hours we'd go for lunch together for a break. It was great vibes.

[17]

10 - Test each other

I did this with my medical student friends. We would each learn one topic really well, and then test others on that subject. So we'd all turn up to a session with different knowledge and learn a lot more than we would of by ourselves.

[18]

11 - Read your friends essays

Form a shared google drive with friends and share all of your essays or revision notes in the drive. If you pool resources, you can benefit a lot from the economy of scale and look at things in a different way to what you might have on your own.

[19]

12 - Have a workspace

In my first year of medical school I tried learning by myself in my room. But from second year onwards I'd go to the library, grab breakfast and study with friends. I made so much more progress this way and didn't end up procrastinating in my bedroom.

[20]

13 - Have time to unwind

There's an over-glamourisation of over-working these days. When you finish university, you're not going to remember the amount of sleep you lost to studying. You will remember the fun memories and great friends you made, who will be around for life.

[21]

14 - Enjoy the journey

When you're a student, it can be very easy to defer your happiness until after your exams.

You'll never again be in an environment where you're surrounded by friends who are all doing the same thing, with frankly quite a lot of free time.

[22]

Make sure you're enjoying every moment of your student life, because the journey is actually so much sweeter than the destination.

</twitter thread example 1>

<twitter thread example 2>

---

Here's how to learn anything x2 faster:

---

1. Sharpen the Axe

Abraham Lincoln said "Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe"

In other words, we need to first work out how we're actually going to learn the thing.

---

2. Optimise Focus

When we fully focus on learning, our brains pick things up much faster.

The 5-minute rule helps when we're finding it difficult to start- just work on the thing for 5 minutes. We can stop after this, but usually once you've started, you'll want to continue.

---

3. Find Opportunities for Immersion

The general principle is that we learn best when we're in the environment we're actually going to be using the skill in.

My advice: step out of your comfort zone and fully immerse yourself by doing the thing you want to learn.

---

4. What's Your Weakest Link?

We actually want to focus on our weaknesses instead of our strengths when learning.

If you took an exam tomorrow, what would you be least happy with if it came up? Identify the weak points and get ready to test yourself.

---

5. Test Yourself

The idea behind active recall is that we don't learn by trying to put stuff into our brains.

Counterintuitively, we learn by trying to take stuff out of our brains. Think of testing as a way to reinforce knowledge (more in this video https://youtu.be/fDbxPVn02VU)
[Article: https://t.co/5GFCaG3otu]


---

6. Get Regular Intense Feedback

At the start of any learning journey, we need to inject positivity and enthusiasm, rather than necessarily critical feedback.

But, if we start taking learning seriously, focus on critical and constructive feedback from tutors or peers to improve.

---

7. Over-learn

When we're learning something we actually want to try and learn it in more depth than we necessarily need to.

The idea here is to continuously be asking why a thing works the way that it does.

---

8. Use Spacing

The idea is that we need to learn the same thing at spaced intervals if we want to encode it into our long-term memory.

By spacing out the practice of this thing, eventually it's going to become muscle memory.

---

9. Teach What You're Learning

As a general policy, whenever I'm learning something I'll document the process.

This helps me to double check that I've understood the concept properly and solidifies my learning. You can do this by writing it down or trying to teach a friend.

---

</twitter thread example 2>

<twitter thread example 3>

Thread by Dickie Bush  (@dickiebush)

If you use it right, Twitter is the most powerful platform in the world.

But Twitter does a horrible job of showing you its advanced features.

Here are 10 of them you probably know nothing about:

---

The most underutilized Twitter feature: advanced search.

It blows my mind how few people know this.

Want to find someone's best tweets?

In the search bar, type:

from:dickiebush min_faves:500

Replace the handle and the number of likes as you see fit.

---

Another good advanced search tip:

Want to see everyone's tweets on a particular topic?

In the search bar, type:

from:dickiebush "consistency"

Again, replace the handle and keyword as you see fit.

You can filter by popularity too:

from:dickiebush "consistency" min_faves:100

---

We all have those people we don't want following us, but don't want to block.

Here's a good hack:

Block them, then unblock them.

This will unfollow you, but they'll never know.

---

Get mentioned in a tweet that is receiving way too many replies, turning your notifications into a disaster?

I've been there.

Click to expand the details of the tweet, then click the three dots on the top right-hand corner.

Then, click "mute this conversation."

---

Everything changes when you start to mute words on Twitter.

There are too many options to explain in a single tweet, so here you go:

https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/advanced-twitter-mute-options…

---

Have multiple interests?

Start to create different Lists for each of them.

Then, pin them to the top of your timeline and swipe easily between them.

It's like having multiple Twitter accounts in the same place.

And it also stops you from doomscrolling.

---

Now for a few practical tips on writing effective tweets and threads:

---

I see this mistake so often.

Someone puts together a great thread, but starts it by tagging someone with an
@someone


Starting a tweet with an
@someone
 will make Twitter think it's a reply and hide it from your followers.

Find a way to start your thread or tweet differently.

---

Go easy on the links.

Twitter penalizes links to external content.

If you want to share your newsletter, website, blog post, or podcast, try this:

Write some copy to pique the reader's interest, then link to it in a reply underneath that tweet.

---

Formatting matters.

The difference between an average tweet and a great tweet comes down to style.

The easiest upgrade?

• Lists
• Using
• Bullets

Look way better than:

- Lists
- Using
- Dashes

How to find them:

• Mac: Option + 8
• Windows: Alt + 7

---

This is one of the biggest engagement hacks out there.

If you want to resurface a tweet back to the top of everyone's timeline, don't retweet it.

Simply reply to it with a follow-up question or additional tweet.

Twitter resurfaces the top tweet + two most recent replies.

---

And that's it!

If you found this thread useful, jump back up to the top to bookmark it and share it so others can learn from it too.

</twitter thread example 3>

<twitter thread example 4>

Thread by Dickie Bush  (@dickiebush)

I used to hate AI.

I thought it was all hype.

But now I write with it every single day.

Here's how (with prompts):

[Image: Image] (https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GtzoWvyWIAAwxkv?format=png&name=900x900)
---

Everyone says AI is amazing.

But if it feels useless when you use it, don't worry:

You've never been shown how to actually write with it.

Here are 7 ways I use it to write better, faster, and with less effort:

---

1. Make AI your writing upgrader

When I first started using AI, I thought it was overhyped.

Turns out, I was just a terrible prompt writer.

Now I use these 7 simple prompts to upgrade my writing in seconds:

---

2. Make AI your personal idea generator

I turned my "Endless Idea Generator" framework into a prompt:

Step 1. Take the "2-Year Test" to identify core topics

Step 2. Add specificity to match your credibility

Step 3. Use the "4A Framework" to generate proven content ideas

[Image: Image] (https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Gtzog_kXcAABuwK?format=png&name=900x900)
---
</rewritten_file> 